>> Steve Kinney: And so we've go the
thematic piece in here where they are now
shared.
What I want you to do is take a break
from me talking for a moment.
In exercises, there's a little user
API which is very similar to what we
are doing just on the express level,
right?
Play with the types, play with some
schemas, try to get it working.
And then we will then do some there, flesh
out the rest of this, and to start to
look at ways to make this more sustainable
and easier to do, and more scalable.
Scalable not in the performance sense,
but scalable in the sense of,
you can do this repeatedly and
consistently, right, across a team.
So where you are going is
in the exercises folder.
There is a little user API,
which is, there's no database.
It's a very simplified version
of what we saw earlier.
So in exercises, user API,
the world's simplest little version
of what we were just working with.
For you, just try it out in a clean space.
There are some tests to test your
assumptions if you really want to,
you don't have to run them.
They're mostly to make sure I didn't
break stuff as I was preparing, but
if you wanna run them,
they're there for you too.
But just try to, again, these will start
out being all sorts of weird nies.
Just take a pass without copy and pasting,
just try to get some basic safety in this.
And we'll look at it together, and
we'll apply it to the larger project.
>> Steve Kinney: Okay, so we had
a version, not just similar to what we're
working on before, but a nice little,
clean safe space with no databases or
any fun things like that,
just like a little in memory store.
And we wanna kinda take the same approach
that I just did in our larger app and
just kick it around a little bit, right?
Cuz we will talk about more sophisticated
things in terms of generation.
But arguably, if you get this down,
you are on the 80/20 principle of,
20% of working, 80% there, you're there.
Watch the rest, it's good,
you'll love it, but spiritually.
So we can do that trick that we saw
earlier where if I already have
the type and I wanna go back the other
direction, we can do that as well.
And so I could say something like
a UserSchema is z.object.
And we'll get there with the UUID,
don't steal my thunder.
An I is a string, not yet,
let's pull in dot as well.
The name is a string problem
when you got that auto complete.
What is stuff where you already
have the answers on another branch?
And then we could do
satisfies the user type.
So now I can be pretty
confident that this does,
in fact,
do everything that this type does, right?
Generally speaking, cuz this question came
up before, I do tend to start this way and
go that way, unless the type pre-exists,
and I'm trying to match it.
So we'll start there.
And so now what we can do is say, for
instance, for this request body, right?
This is for a post one,
we might not have the Id just yet.
So we could also make the versions.
And again, you can do these in line.
If you are only gonna use it once,
maybe that makes total sense.
If you find that you're gonna use
a partial version all the time,
make it a reusable one, right?
It doesn't really matter.
I will probably make types out of them,
like if this is a larger code base, so
I'm going to keep it like this.
So yeah, basically,
again, there's a do not
repeat yourself part of keeping this dry,
right?
If you did make these all bespoke,
then you have to keep them in sync.
If you derive one from the other, then
you should be in a much better situation.
Cool, and so that should do the trick,
the order there doesn't really matter,
just like it doesn't in TypeScript.
You can omit the key that you don't want,
to make the rest of them partial.
You can make them all partial and
take out the key you don't want.
That's how math works,
you get to the same result.
Great, and so now we can just go through
here, and we can say, okay, this body for
creating a new user.
Well, that should be
the CreateUserSchema.parse, right?
And now everything is what I
think it ought to be, right?
Theoretically, we will never actually
hit this because this will throw.
In the catch is when I could have
chosen to then look at the errors and
figure out what they're missing.
And we saw before, you can do stuff like,
>> Steve Kinney: It's a dot message,
we can also, I think,
>> Steve Kinney: So on and so forth.
You can begin to also
customize the messages,
which are nice for
the response types and stuff like that.
So now we know this is the thing that
it ought to be in both of these cases.
A new user, again, we wanna say,
this should be the full one at this point.
And again, if this is a database, we might
choose as it came out of the database.
This is like our overly simple example,
so we can focus on the core thing.
And so now I could theoretically,
like one, if this didn't match,
I would be getting yelled at, right,
cuz we now know the type of both things.
But then also this is somewhat
unnecessary cuz we know
that it's a user in the same way.
Cool, the only advantage
you get from this one,
by the way, to be clear,
is if you like that more than this,
choose whichever one makes you happy.
Honestly, for smaller ones,
this makes me happier cuz I don't remember
what a user is, but we all know
how extreme this can get, right?
If it's a giant one, maybe I just.
If it's a primitive thing that I work with
all the time and it happens to be giant,
I will go for the other approach,
would give me the shorthand.
Because again, you can do stuff like.
>> Steve Kinney: We click on newUser,
we end up here.
I can go to that definition,
which is nice as well, right?
Trade-offs, you choose which
one ever makes you happier.
But now we know that this is newUser.
It can very cleanly be pushed onto here,
it's not any,
I get a lot more type safety.
Everything worked beforehand
because it just happened to work.
Now it works cuz I know that it works,
cuz all the types match up.
Because before,
everything was just any, and
my tests are the only thing keeping
everything together, right?
Cuz now theoretically,
the testing story becomes a lot easier,
even if you're only working on just
the client or just the server.
Because beforehand, right,
I would have to have a bunch of tests,
make sure I got back the 400 whatever.
At this point, I could just send
in an object and should not throw,
or should throw, or
response should be 200 or not a 200.
And I will know that the rest
of the type safety was there.
Again, so query is another one.
So this is for filtering.
So in this case,
any of these can be optional, right?
So do I have?
>> Steve Kinney: You can argue
that I could reuse this one.
So we'll say,
>> Steve Kinney: And
so this should be, everything's optional,
but there should not be an Id in there.
So now I could say,
PartialUser.parse, with the query.
And again, now this is a string undefined,
this is a string undefined, right?
We've got the ability to filter them.
We know whatever thing
ought to be at this point.
Yeah, everything's basically typed,
say, there's not any to found in here.
So we should be pretty good.
We know that's a string, great.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, we can get
rid of those little helpful things.
Cuz again, this is gonna cast it as
a string, regardless if it is one, right?
Cuz it was any, and
we wanted to call to lowercase on it.
Get rid of all of that, we're still good,
not a red line to be found
on that minimap, right?
Everything is type safe, even if things
are coming in from the outside world.
The params, that could just be,
again, we could either make one,
or we could say that it is just either
in UserSchema.pick id is true.
>> Steve Kinney: We don't get a lot from
that one cuz that was a string to begin
with, but we'll see where it
becomes useful in a second.
So then users,
great, awesome, super.
Again, this is where, again,
I might choose to then
>> Steve Kinney: Make it its own thing.
>> Steve Kinney: Ordering matters in
JavaScript when it doesn't in TypeScript.
You could also go the other way
where I could make this NID and
then I could extend it.
Six of one, half dozen of the other.
Great, and so where was I?
>> Steve Kinney: We got the users.
Req body is a problem, but
in this case, we got that.
>> Steve Kinney: Boom,
everything's what it should be.
And then delete is, let's see,
we've just got that id.
>> Steve Kinney: And
you're like, hey, Steve,
I am bored watching you
with four CRUD endpoints.
Yes, we're getting somewhere, I'm building
towards something here, I promise.
Great, index, should we find the index?
>> Steve Kinney: See, look, type safety,
helping me in ways that it
wasn't going to a second ago.
Great, so on and so forth.
Cool, everything is what
I think it should be.
All right, this basically lets you run
the tests or run the actual server.
So we've got that in place, and
now I've got this little tiny,
little CRUD endpoint is now
completely type-safed up, right?
We now know that everything is what we
think it is, or it will blow up, right?
And that point, we would implement
some logic to catch the error,
send the 400, right?
So it is slightly too express-specific,
and just kind of next to the core themes
that we should be talking about that we're
not gonna do it, but theoretically there.
And I could begin to refine some
of these a little bit, right?
This is gonna be more than
just the TypeScript part.
I will now make sure the email
is actually an email, right?
Could I have found an email RegX over
stack overflow like I have done for years?
Sure, but will this also do the trick?
If we wanna make sure this is a UUID,
right, we can get both of those as well.
And now no red lines in my mini map,
right?
So now we can also above and beyond,
cuz it still satisfies that type.
And this is where I might flip some
of the logic, so if you wanna see.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, so there are
six of one that have done the other, but
I had the extra safety of knowing
this will actually be a UUID,
this will actually be an email,
so on and so forth.
And I basically get that for
free with a grand total of what,
I don't know how to count parentheses,
6, 7, 12 extra characters.
Count the dots, 14 characters,
not bad, right, I'll take it.
That all of a sudden,
I look like a 10X engineer at work.
All right, great, so now we have a totally
effectively type-safed API in place.
Again, with more validation
than we would've had normally.
Everything else that extends
from this works, right?
So now the big question is,
how do we do this again at scale?